# Version 0.5.0

Lens version 0.5.0 paves the way for better documentation of the Lens library with the introduction of the [Lens Book](https://samply.github.io/lens/book/) and [API docs](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/). Version 0.5.0 also introduces the [translations API](../guide/translations.md) and the [setOptions](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/setOptions.html) and [setCatalogue](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/setCatalogue.html) APIs that pose an alternative to the `<lens-options></lens-options>` component. Finally it comes with internal improvements such as the migration to Svelte 5 and the automatic generation of the catalogue JSON schema to keep it in sync with the TypeScript definitions. You can find the full list of changes [on GitHub](https://github.com/samply/lens/releases/tag/v0.5.0).

## Migration guide

Version 0.5.0 introduces a few breaking changes that application authors should be aware of. This guide will help you to migrate your application to the new version.

### CSS bundle import path

The import path of the CSS bundle has changed. If the import is processed by your bundler we recommend to use automatic module resolution:

```js
import "@samply/lens/style.css";
```

If you have to refer to the file directly you can find it at `node_modules/@samply/lens/dist/lens.css`.

### Catalogue changes

The catalogue JSON schema is a little bit stricter now. Most notably every object with the `"childCategories"` property now additionally requires `"fieldType": "group"`. For example:

```diff
 {
+    "fieldType": "group",
     "key": "donor",
     "name": "Donor/Clinical Information",
     "childCategories": [
         ...
     ]
 }
```

You can use the following this script to update your catalogue. Afterwards open the file in your editor and reformat it.

```bash
sed -i 's/"childCategories"/"fieldType": "group", "childCategories"/' catalogue.json
```

### Catalogue icons

Icons have been removed from the `<lens-catalogue>` component:

```diff
 <lens-catalogue
-    toggleIconUrl="right-arrow-svgrepo-com.svg"
-    addIconUrl="long-right-arrow-svgrepo-com.svg"
-    infoIconUrl="info-circle-svgrepo-com.svg"
     ...
 ></lens-catalogue>
```

Add them to the `iconOptions` object in the Lens options instead. Also remove the `selectAll` property and use the new [translations API](../guide/translations.md) instead if you want to customize the text.

```diff
 "iconOptions": {
     "deleteUrl": "delete_icon.svg",
     "infoUrl": "info-circle-svgrepo-com.svg",
+    "toggleIconUrl": "right-arrow-svgrepo-com.svg",
+    "addIconUrl": "long-right-arrow-svgrepo-com.svg",
-    "selectAll": {
-        "text": "Alle Hinzufügen"
-    }
 }
```

### Schema validation

JSON schema definitions for the Lens options and the catalogue are now included in the Lens release. Refer to [this section in the new application guide](../guide/new-app.md#schema-validation) to learn how to validate your JSON files against the JSON schema.
