# Version 0.6.3

## Features

- Numeric range, date range, and string input catalogue entries can now be added and edited directly from the search bar without opening the catalogue.
- Charts now support sorting by value or alphabetically with visual toggle buttons that indicate sort direction. This feature is disabled by default and can be enabled by setting the `enableSorting` prop of the [Lens Chart](../components/chart.md) component to `true`.
- Added functions `selectSite` and `unselectSite` that allows to programmatically select sites in the table for data requests.
- Added optional `indicateApproximation` prop to result table and result summary components, that shows a visual indication that the numbers in the table/summary are approximations.
- Added the [About Lens](../components/aboutlens.md) component that provides a link to the Lens GitHub repository and shows the version of the Lens library that the application is currently running.

## Breaking changes

- Removed unused `system` key from catalogue, query store, and AST
- Renamed `hideFailedSite` to `removeFailedSite`
- Changes to the `buttonSize` and `alignDialogue` props of the Info Button component
- Renamed `backgroundHoverColor` to `hoverBackgroundColor`in the charts props

## Migration guide

### Removal of `system` key

Remove the `system` key from your catalogues. It was unused before so nothing will break when you remove it.

### Rename of `hideFailedSite`

Update your application to use `removeFailedSite` instead of `hideFailedSite`.

### Changes to Info Button props

Update your info buttons to take numeric values instead of a string containing `px` on `buttonSize` prop.

Update your info buttons to take one of `"top-left" | "top-center" | "top-right" | "bottom-left" | "bottom-center" | "bottom-right"` on `alignDialogue` prop.

###
