# Version 0.6.0

## Migration guide

### QueryExplainButton

In earlier versions of Lens, we used a specialized version of the `<lens-info-button>` to display the current query or a portion of it. This functionality has now been refactored into a dedicated component: `<lens-query-explain-button>`.

Replace:

```svelte
<lens-info-button noQueryMessage="Empty Query" showQuery={true}
></lens-info-button>
```

With:

```svelte
<lens-query-explain-button noQueryMessage="Empty Query"
></lens-query-explain-button>
```

### Querying the backend

In the new version, Lens will no longer query backends itself when the search button is clicked. Instead, the application must read the current query from the search bar, send the query to a backend to get results, and then pass the results to Lens so it can show them.

To give a short summary of the new paradigm, the application listens to the global `lens-search-triggered` event, then retrieves the current query using the new [`getAst`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/getAst.html) function, optionally uses the new [`createBeamTask`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/createBeamTask.html) function to send the query to a backend, and then passes the results to Lens via the new [`markSiteClaimed`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/markSiteClaimed.html) and [`setSiteResult`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/setSiteResult.html) functions. More details and example codes can be found in the dedicated guides.

TODO: create and link dedicated guides

The `setSiteResult` function accepts the new [`SiteResult`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/types/SiteResult.html) format that is independent of the FHIR standard. [Focus](https://github.com/samply/focus) can return the new result format from version X.X.X (TODO: specify version) onwards. If you have a FHIR result you can convert to the new format using the [`measureReportToSiteResult`](https://samply.github.io/lens/docs/functions/measureReportToSiteResult.html) function.

A number of related APIs have been removed in favor of the new paradigm:

- The `backend` field has been removed from the Lens options
- The `emit-lens-query` event has been renamed to `lens-search-triggered` and does no longer contain the `details` field
- The `getResponseAPI()` function has been removed from the `LensDataPasser` (TODO: we are planning to remove LensDataPasser completely so remove this line)
- The `lens-responses-updated` event has been removed

### Catalogue prop changes

If you are using the collapsible catalogue feature, the texts for the expand/collapse button are now no longer specified as props:

```diff
 <lens-catalogue
-    texts={{
-        collapseButtonTitle: 'My custom expand text',
-        expandButtonTitle: 'My custom collapse text',
-    }}
     toggle={{ collapsable: true }}
 ></lens-catalogue>
```

If you specified any other texts in the `texts` prop you can remove them as well as they are no longer used. The expand/collapse button texts are now specified in the Lens options [as translations](../guide/translations.md):

````json
"texts": {
    "catalogue_expand": {
        "en": "My custom expand text"
    },
    "catalogue_collapse": {
        "en": "My custom collapse text"
    },
}```
````
